 
BioHazard/Hazardous Material - Dell Global Policy  
Table of Contents (TOC)  
• Background  
• Policy  
o Bio Hazard Criteria  
o Escalating to the Safety Team  
o Consequences of Noncompliance with Policy  
• Procedure  
o Bio Hazard Exchange Procedure  
• Related Articles  
• Additional Information  
Dell is committed to product quality and to the safety of our customers and employees. As 
part of that commitment, Dell has a dedicated team to respond to and investigate reports 
of issues with Dell products if the report indicates that a safety concern ma y exist. 
However, biological contamination that may occur in the field is outside of this scope. Dell 
is not equipped to handle biological or hazardous substances in its receiving facilities nor 
is the Dell onsite service providers or portables repair depo ts. Therefore, Dell will not take 
on the liability for disposal of any contaminants, nor do we want to expose our employees 
or partners to such materials.  
 
Dell products are designed to be safe for their intended use. They are also designed and 
manufacture d to meet all appropriate legal and regulatory requirements in the areas where 
they are sold. While perceived biological contamination complaints are rare, they must be 
treated seriously to protect Dell, Dell employees and Dell’s customers. To ensure these  
customers reported issues are responded to properly, Dell employees and Dell authorized 
partners must understand the steps to follow if they encounter a biological contamination 
concern reported by a customer.  
 
In the course of communicating with a custom er, the customer may make comments that 
contain words or statements that may indicate the customer is concerned the product is 
biologically contaminated. These include, but are not limited to blood or other bodily fluids, i.e. urine, vomit, etc., or it is contaminated by any other perceived hazardous substance.  
 
If the customer makes comments that indicate they are concerned the product is 
biologically contaminated, including but not limited to statements of the product bei ng 
contaminated with:  
• Blood or other bodily fluids (i.e., urine, vomit, etc.) from Humans or any living 
organisms.  
• Is contaminated by any other perceived hazardous substance, through no fault of 
Dell.  
Dell is not obligated to cover the repair or replacement of the system or part and out of 
warranty (point of need) service options are not available through Dell.  
If a situation arises that there is a known contamination, the system cannot be repaired or 
replaced.  The customer should not attempt to ship the system to a Dell repair facility, such 
as a Depot, MIS/CIS center as Dell may not be able to return the system to the customer 
due to shipping restrictions.  
  
 
Table of Contents  
 
Policy  
Regulation:  
Biologically Contaminated systems are NOT eligible for 
Accidental Damage Claims.  
If the contaminated system has an active Complete Care contract and the damage is 
accidental, the system or component should be exchanged by the Bio -Hazard exchange 
procedure below in the Procedure Section.  
1. If the contaminated system has a standard hardware warranty without a Complete 
Care contract, and the damage was caused by the customer through no fault of 
Dell, Dell is not obligated to cover the repair or replacement of the system or part 
and Out of warr anty service options are not available through Dell.  2. In the very unlikely event the contamination is perceived as being caused by Dell 
(e.g., system is contaminated out -of-box), use the Bio -hazard Exchange Procedure. 
Situations that could be classified under safety hazard guidelines (e.g., leaking 
battery) s hould be handled by the safety capture process. For more information, 
refer to  "Product Safety Policy and Procedure - Dell Global Policy"  Article ID: 
000048660.  
3. If a component of a contaminated system requires repair or replacement due to 
hardware failure or manufacturing defect (not the contamination) and has a 
standard hardware warranty, Dell will cover the repair or replacement. In these 
circumstances, Dell wil l not issue onsite or depot service. Instead use the Bio -
hazard Exchange Procedure.  
Dell is not equipped to handle hazardous substances in its receiving facilities nor is the 
Dell onsite service providers or portables repair depots. Therefore, Dell will not take on the 
liability for disposal of any contaminants, nor do we want to expose o ur employees or 
partners to such materials. Therefore, do not ask customers to return products that are 
potentially contaminated with any of the biological hazards described above to any of 
Dell’s receiving centers or Repair Depots.  
 Note:  
  • Agents SHOULD NEVER  lead the customer's conversation, e.g. did you 
bleed on the system? Let the customer tell you what happened.  
• Agents SHOULD NEVER  tell customers their issue is a bio -hazard 
issue.  
• Agents SHOULD NEVER  offer  ANY  type of compensation to the 
customer including EXG without proper approval from the Product 
Safety team.  
• Agents SHOULD NEVER  provide advice or discuss with the customer 
any information regarding:  
o Legal course of action.  
o Dell liability.  
o Insurance claim.  
Bio-Hazard criteria found in the customer's verbal, written, or recorded records  1. The customer must have a Complete Care Contract for accidental damage, or the 
customer indicates the biological contamination is perceived as being caused by 
Dell (e.g., system is contaminated out -of-box)  
AND  
2. One or more of the following customer claims:  
• Blood or other bodily fluids, i.e. urine, vomit, etc., were accidentally spilled 
on the product or the product is contaminated by any other perceived 
hazardous substance.  
Escalating to the Safety Team  
If you feel you are not getting the resolution to the issue you may ask for the case to be 
escalated to the Safety Lead (through WW_Product_Safety_Captures@dell.com).   For more 
information refer to  Product Safety Policy and Procedure - Dell Global Policy  Article ID: 
000048660.  
Consequences of Noncompliance with Policy  
 Regulation:  
  Failure to comply with this policy and follow the guidelines may place our 
customers at risk, tarnish Dell's reputation, and ultimately expose Dell to 
legal liability. And, as with any Dell corporate policy, failure to comply may 
result in disciplinary act ion.  
 
Table of Contents  
 
Keywords  
Help KeywordsFollow SEO guidelines to add relevant keywords for indexing and searching.  
BioHazard  
Procedure  
 Notice:    Never put the customer at risk of injury by having them physically repeat 
the sequence of events.  
1. Have the customer discontinue using the system and disconnect all power sources.  
2. Have the customer explain the events leading up to the contamination (for example, 
establish the situation Who, What, When, Where).  
• Who  was involved in the incident?  
Example : "I left the system on the table and my <neighbor>…"  
• What  exactly happened?  What  were you doing when the problem or incident 
occurred?  
Example : "I was on the table..."  
• When  did the problem or incident occur?  
Example : "It happened 3 days ago. I just haven't had time to call you."  
• Where  (in relation to the system) did the problem or incident occur?  
Example : "all over the Keyboard. " 
3. Instruct the customer to provide the following:  
• Clear pictures of the product, including the contaminated area and a picture 
of the service tag.  
  
 Note:  
  Pictures need to show the entire unit not just abstracts of the 
contaminated area.  
• If the caller is not the original owner, contact the original owner to see if the 
system is still in their possession or if it has been resold or gifted to someone 
else. If you find out it was resold or gifted, see if they will tell you who they 
resold or gifted it to (if they don’t remember a name, see if they remember the 
city/state where the new owner lives).  
4. Log all customer comments  relating to the failure in the  Dell Internal 
Comments/SFDC  Notes.  
5. You must begin the customer comments with  "Customer said".  6. Include any statements offered by the customer regarding personal injury and 
property damage unless the injury was Customer Induced, e.g. while typing on my 
computer, my cat jumped up and urinated on the keyboard and I received a shock.  
7. Set the customer expectation that an agent will call them back after the appropriate 
approvals have been received for the dispatch. (The Dell Services Safety Analyst will 
respond to submitting tech support agent within the next business day. (Business 
days are M-F)) 
8. Inform the customer that they should not attempt to clean or repair these items.  
9. Provide the customer with the SR/case number and the dispatch number if issuing a 
dispatch.  
  
Customer Experience:  
Accidental Damage contracts within  Americas  do not include Biohazard 
coverage. For more information on Accidental Damage coverage please 
see  Accidental Damage (Complete Care/Cover) – Dell Global Policy  
 
If the contaminated system has an active Accidental Damage contract and the damage is 
accidental, the system or component should be exchanged by following the Bio -Hazard 
exchange procedure.   
Bio-Hazard Exchange Procedure  
Prior to issuing any EXG, current ownership and validation of the issue must be 
established. Follow the steps outlined below:  
1. Request clear pictures of the product where it has been contaminated.  
2. Request a clear picture of the service tag of the affected product.  
3. If the caller is not the original owner, contact the original owner to see if the system 
is still in their possession or if it has been resold or gifted to someone else. If you 
find out it was resold or gifted, see if they will tell you who they resold or gifted it to (if 
they don’t remember a name, see if they remember the city/state where the new 
owner lives).  
• Tell the customer not to return the part or product and to dispose of it according to 
their own hazardous substance disposal procedures as Dell is not equipped to receive biologically hazardous products, parts or equipment and therefore will not 
receive them in our return  facilities or repair depots.  
 
Table of Contents  
  
Related Articles  
Help Related ArticlesLists other related articles with different fixes. Separated by commas.  
• Product Safety Policy and Procedure - Dell Global Policy  Article ID: 000048660  
• Accidental Damage (Complete Care/Cover) – Dell Global Policy  Article ID: 
000048769  
 