 
What Is Covered Under the Standard Dell Warranty  
 
Coverage  
The Dell Limited Warranty does not cover system repairs for damages due to external 
causes, including accident, abuse, misuse, problems with electrical power, servicing not 
authorized by Dell, usage not in accordance with product instructions, failure to p erform 
required preventive maintenance, and problems caused by use of parts and components 
not supplied by Dell. While these acts are not covered under the Dell warranty, Dell will 
assist the customer in correcting this issue; however, it will be the cust omer's 
responsibility to pay for such efforts.  
Examples of natural situations not covered under the standard Dell Limited Warranty 
include damage caused by fire, flood, lightning strikes, and power surges. For the exact 
wording of your warranty, you can fi nd it:  
  
• In the Start menu, in the Dell Accessories program group, under Service and 
Support Policies.  
• On the Dell Web site at  Dell Terms of Sale, License Agreements & Policies . 
 
Agents may also refer to  Accidental Damage (Complete Care/Cover) – Dell Global 
Policy   for help assisting customers with Accidental Damage coverage.  
` 
Notice:  
 
If an issue occurs while a customer is performing troubleshooting tasks 
as directed by Dell Technical Support and such issue is caused by Dell 
Technical Support’s instructions, then this issue would be covered by 
Dell. This policy includes the accidental b reakage of a part or loss of 
functionality of parts by updating BIOS updates.  
  
Table of Contents  
1. Background  2. Procedure  
  
Table of Contents  
 
Policy  
N/A  
Keywords  
Help KeywordsFollow SEO guidelines to add relevant keywords for indexing and searching.  
Dell Standard Warranty Cover Accidental Damage  
Procedure  
Voiding the Dell Limited Warranty  
  
Notice:  
You cannot "void" the Dell limited warranty. Rather, we exclude certain items from 
the limited warranty, and to the extent the issue is related to those exclusion items, 
the limited warranty does not apply. However, the overall system warranty remains 
intact. To use memory as an example, if a customer called in with a server issue 
that we could confirm was related to the use of the third -party memory, we would 
not cover the issue under limited warranty. However, if the same customer had a 
faulty motherboard  one day later unrelated to the memory, and if the system was 
within the warranty term, then we would replace the faulty component, even with 
third-party memory installed.  
The limited warranty exclusions are below.  
 
This limited warranty does not cover:  
• Software, including without limitation, the operating system and software 
added to the Dell -branded hardware products through our factory -
integration system, third -party software or the reloading of software.  
• Non Dell-branded products and accessories  
• Problems that result, directly or indirectly, from:  o External causes such as accident, abuse, misuse, or problems with 
electrical power  
o Servicing not authorized by Dell.  
o Usage that is not in accordance with product instructions.  
o Failure to follow the product instructions or failure to perform 
preventive maintenance.  
o Problems caused by using accessories, parts, or components not 
supplied by Dell  
• Commercial hardware products that use, or in which have been installed, 
products, or components that have not been provided by Dell.  
• Products with missing or altered Service Tags or serial numbers.  
• Products for which Dell has not received payment  
• Normal wear and tear.  
This is a subtle distinction, but we must be careful not to tell customers that doing 
something in the list above voids the entire system warranty. This is both legally 
inaccurate and will lead to terrible CE.  
Table of Contents  
 