Table of Contents:  
1. What is Customer Induced Damage?  
2. How do I identify different types of Customer Induced Damages?  
 
What is Customer Induced Damage?  
Customer Induced Damage is any damage that is not the direct result of a manufacturing 
defect or failure. Such damage is most often the result of an unintentional act such as a 
drop or an impact to the LCD screen or any other part of the product which may render the 
device non -functional. Such types of unintentional damage are only covered if the product 
has an additional Accidental Damage Protection plan. Customer Induced Damage is not to 
be confused with Laptop LCD or Flat Panel with dead or stuck pixel. For more information 
about dead or stuck pixels, see Dell knowledge base article  Dell Display Pixel Guidelines . 
   
Is Customer Induced Damage covered under the Basic Warranty for my computer?  
No, Customer Induced Damage is only covered for customers who have purchased 
Accidental Damage Protection for that specific product.  
 
For more information about Dell Limited Hardware Warranty and Dell's Accidental Damage 
service offering, go to the  Warranty & Support Services  page.  
 
Back to Top  
 
How do I identify different types of Customer Induced Damages?  
Flat panel monitors or Laptop LCD panels can encounter different types of damage  that 
may or may not be considered customer induced damage. The tables below illustrate the 
different types of damage that can occur on a Laptop LCD Panel or a Flat Panel Monitor.  Table 1:  Not customer induced damage examples  
Symptom  Description  Example  
Damaged 
Packaging  Packaging has evidence of physical damage on the outside 
and/or inside that results in the contents being damaged.   
 
   
Table 2:  Examples of customer induced damage  
Symptom  Description  Example  
Hinge Area 
Damage  Opening an LCD panel more than the maximum 
possible lid opening angle on a Dell Laptop (for 
example 135 degrees) can cause the panel to crack 
near the hinges.   
Broken LCD  Internal cracks are typically due to excessive force on 
the screen.  
This can be the result of something pressing the 
screen, an unintentional drop, attempting to close the 
laptop LCD while an object is on the keypad area, or 
even holding the laptop by its screen.   
 
 
Liquid Spill  Evidence of liquid spill or evidence of graphical 
distortion as shown which is more visible on a white 
background.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Material 
on the 
LCD/Display  The material does not come off during the normal 
cleaning process. Most often could be adhesives from 
labels.   
 Table 2:  Examples of customer induced damage  
Symptom  Description  Example  
Broken Plastics  Cracks or other physical damage that is caused to the 
plastics of the monitor as shown.   
Scratched 
Polarizer or Touch 
Screen  The polarized film or the touch screen of the monitor 
can get easily damaged by sharp objects coming in 
contact with the monitor.   
Damaged 
Connectors  Damage to  connectors that are caused by abuse or 
missing control panel buttons that are caused by 
abuse.   
Cracked Cover 
Glass  Cracks/dents are seen on the glass panel of the 
monitor.  
The top layer of the monitor is a cover glass which can 
get damaged and once cracked may cause personal 
injury if not handled properly.   
Broken Stand  Broken stand of the monitor is caused by improper 
installation of the monitor stand or an unintentional 
drop.   
Part Number 
Mismatch  The part number of the monitor that was supposed to 
be received is wrong and inconsistent either on the 
monitor itself or a mismatch in the serial number. 
Inconsistent information.   
Mura  Mura is an effect that is commonly known as 
"clouding."  
This effect is a low -contrast, irregular pattern, or region 
that causes uneven screen uniformity under certain 
conditions.  
It is mostly caused by long -term operation under high 
ambient temperatures.   
Image Burn on the 
LCD (Residual 
Image)  Screen burn -in, image burn -in, or ghosting is a 
permanent discoloration of certain areas of the screen.   Table 2:  Examples of customer induced damage  
Symptom  Description  Example  
See the following article for troubleshooting:  
Image Retention or Burn In on Dell Monitors  
Scratch or Dent on 
the Plastic  Physical damage that is caused to the plastics of the 
monitor due to an unintentional act.   
 
   
More Customer Induced Damage Examples  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Back to Top  
Customer Experience  
If the customer is not happy with the resolution, follow your L2 escalation path to your 
Team Leader as a Customer Experience (CE) failure.  
Verbiage:  "The issue has not been fully resolved to your satisfaction. I must escalate this 
issue to my support staff for instruction."  
NOTE:  If the issue continues, then follow your escalation path through your L2/QL to the 
L3/REC team (as dictated by the computer's warranty).  
 
Back to Top  
   
Related Internal Articles  
• Dell PPID Policy and Procedure - Dell Global Policy  
•   
• Image Retention or Burn In on Dell Monitors  
• Identify the Maximum Possible Lid Opening Angle on a Dell Laptop  
• Plastics Policy - Dell Global Policy  
• Accidental Damage (Complete Care/Cover) - Dell Global Policy  
• Dell Laptop Best Practices for Care, Use, and Handling (Preventive Care)  
 
Back to Top  
Keywords  
Help KeywordsFollow SEO guidelines to add relevant keywords for indexing and searching.  
Identify Customer Induced Damage, Customer Induced Damage, Customer, Induced, 
Damage, CID, CIDAR, Laptop LCD Panel, Flat Panel Monitor, Monitor, Display, LCD, Flat 
Panel, Screen, Damaged Monitor, Damaged LCD, Damaged Screen, hinge issue, crack 
hinge, hinge  screw issue, hinge crack, hinge broken, hinge area damage  
Supplemental Content  
 