Table of Contents:  
1. What is happening?  
2. How can customers send their images?  
3. What happens next?  
4. How do you upload an image using Email?  
5. How do you upload an image using WhatsApp?  
6. How do you upload an image using Apple Business Chat (ABC)?  
7. How do you upload an image using Google Business Messenger (GBM)?  
8. How do you upload an image using the Line Messenger app?  
9. How do you upload an image using WeChat?  
10. What does this process look like in Lightning?  
11. What are the static picture file formats supported?  
 
  
What is happening?  
When customers state that their laptop LCD has failed and exhibits symptoms of:  
• No Video  
• Flickering Video  
• Horizontal or Vertical Lines  
• Distorted Screens  
• Light Leakage  
• 2 Amber, 7 White LCD Diagnostic  Code  
Agents should use  DTC  and type in the failure modes.  
The guided solution guides the agent to ask the customer for an image of the image on the 
LCD screen.  
   
How can customers send their images?  
After the customer has taken an image of the full screen including the bezel or hinge area, 
agents should encourage customers to use  Email,  or WhatsApp  for customers in EMEA, 
NA, LATAM and India,  WeChat  for customers based out of China, or  Line  for customers 
based out of Japan social media channels.  
Alternatively, customers who have  Apple  devices and speak the English language 
anywhere can also use Apple Business Chat (ABC) Customers who have  Android  mobile 
devices in these countries only: USA, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, 
and India only - can use Google Business Messenger (GBM).  
Note: All customer messages sent to a Dell Business account are two -factor 
authenticated.  
  
 
  
What happens next?  
The image routes to the Visual Listening Engine (VL/AI) where the results are available in 
real-time to an agent with a prediction value that confirms if the LCD is damaged. A log will 
also be auto that is created in the case with a link to the image.  
Note:  It is critical that customers provide images of the LCD with a neutral background 
without photos or images. This ensures that the AI does not interpret something in the 
background image as a Crack in the LCD. Advise customers to capture images during the 
LCD BIST.  
Note:  The crack may be hidden under bezels.  See  Distorted Video, Horizontal or Vertical 
Lines on the LCD Panel, May Actually be Broken Glass  for more information.  
 
 
Figure 1 and 2.  Same LCD from the same customer. The AI identified the figure with the 
flower background as damaged. However, when the second figure with the neutral 
background was received, it was correctly identified as nondamaged and an LCD issue.   
Figure 3.  DTC Screenshot of Visual Listening LCD damage check  
If AI identifies the image as a Cracked Screen, follow one of these policies:  
• Accidental Damage (Complete Care) - Dell Global Policy  
• Dell Global Field Replaceable Parts Customer Induced Damage Asset Recovery 
(CIDAR) - Dell Global Policy   
If AI identifies the image as a Non -Cracked screen, or if the customer is unable or unwilling 
to send an image, the path leads the agent through the standard troubleshooting.  
If the customer does not have WhatsApp/WeChat/Line/ABC/GBM - and only if there is 
suspicion of cracked glass, should send images by email. Guidance with photo examples 
within the path to help the agent identify physical damage.  
 
  
How do you upload an image using Email?  
1. Have the customer take a photo of the LCD damage based on the above conditions  
2. Have the customer open their Email  
3. Have the customer open a new blank email  
4. In the To field, ask the customer to type the email address Picture@dell.com  
5. Ask the customer to use "LCD issue {Service Tag}" as the subject line  
6. Paste the image/s or an image attachment to the body of the email. Advise the 
customer to avoid writing any details in the body of the email. (Example below if 
using image of a damaged screen).  
 
Figure 4.   Notebook LCD damage  
7. Send the email to Picture@dell.com  
Note: The Visual Listening (VL) process will be live on DTC by  January 3  - continue to use 
Email for VL where the customer's preferences to use Email.  Note: Visual Listening will be launching first in English. All other languages are available 
before the end of Q4.  
  
 
  
How do you upload an image using WhatsApp?  
For customers speaking English, Brazilian Portuguese, French, Spanish, German, Italian, 
Polish, Dutch, Danish, or Swedish:  
1. Share one of the following with the customer to establish a chat session:  
• Number: + 919741655960  
a. Save the number as a contact in the phone.  
b. Open the WhatsApp application.  
c. Click the search icon. Type the contact name that you saved for the 
number that is provided by the rep (might need 30 sec to min for 
contact to show up).  
• Link:  https://wa.me/919741655960  
a. Open the link in a browser on the phone (to be performed only if 
WhatsApp is already installed on the phone).  
• QR code  
a.  Open the link on your system - https://dell.to/3K6X9Br  
b. Share it with the customer by email.  
c. Have customers to scan the QR code by opening WhatsApp on their 
phone.  
d. Click 3 vertical dots at the top right -hand corner and click " Settings ". 
e. Click the QR code and click " scan code " at the top  
f. Scan the QR code to start the chat using steps below.  
2. Type "Hello" (in the customers native language) so that WhatsApp can detect the 
appropriate language.  3. WhatsApp gives the customer options, from the options, have the customers select 
"LCD related."  
4. WhatsApp asks for the Service tag, have the customer type in the service tag.  
5. WhatsApp asks customers to share images, have customers share the images.  
6. In SFDC under Case Details, review the AI recommendation to determine if the LCD 
is reported as Cracked/Damaged.  
7. Review the uploaded photo and compare it with the reported AI result.  
See the  video  for a view of the customer side of this interaction.  
  
 
  
How do you upload an image using Apple Business Chat (ABC)?  
1. If the customer is using ABC, open a browser and type the 
link  https://dell.to/36nAzEj (valid for any English speaking Apple user globally ). 
Customers based in the US or Japan can also navigate to the  Dell Support Site . 
• Have the customers go to https://www.dell.com/support.  
• Click "contact us" on the right side and then click "Contact Technical 
Support".  
• Update the service tag (If asked) and click next.  
• Select the issue from the drop -down "Video display issues" and click next o 
Scroll down and you will see the QR code which the customers can scan 
(Available only for US customers).  
2. The "Dell Technical Support" chat window opens on ABC.  
3. Type "#LCD" on ABC to start the conversation.  
4. ABC gives the customer options, from the options, have customers select "LCD 
related."  
5. ABC asks for the Service tag. Have the customer enter the service tag.  
6. ABC asks customers to share images, have customers share the images.  7. In SFDC under Case Details, review the AI recommendation to determine if the LCD 
was reported as Cracked/Damaged.  
8. Review the uploaded photo and compare it with the reported AI result.  
See the  video  for a view of the customer side of this interaction.  
  
 
  
How do you upload an image using Google Business Messenger (GBM)?  
For customers who have Android mobile devices, speak English and are located in: United 
States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand or India only:  
1. Have the customer navigate to google.com on their Android mobile device and 
search for " Dell Technical Support ". 
2.  Click the " Chat with a live agent " option.  
3. In the GBM chat window, enter the " #LCD." 
4. GBM gives the customer options. From the options, have customers select " LCD 
related." 
5. Next GBM will ask for the Service tag. Have the customer enter the service tag.  
6. GBM asks the customer to share images, have the customer share the images.  
7. In SFDC under Case Details, review the AI recommendation to determine if the LCD 
was reported as Cracked/Damaged.  
8. Review the uploaded photo and compare it with the reported AI result.  
See the  video  for a view of the customer side of this interaction.  
  
 
  
How do you upload an image using the Line Messenger app?  
1. Follow the Line Dell Technical Support official account by searching for " デル・テク
ノロジーズ ." Alternately, The Dell official Line account can be accessed by 
https://pDetermine age.line.me/dell  2. When in the Dell Technical Support Official account, type " #LCD" into the chat.  
3. The virtual assistant requests the system  Service Tag  or confirm the Service Tag if 
entered previously.  
4. Upload a photo of the LCD exhibiting the reported issue to the chat.  
5. In SFDC under Case Details, review the AI recommendation to determine if the LCD 
was reported as Cracked/Damaged.  
6. Review the uploaded photo and compare it with the reported AI result.  
  
 
  
How do you upload an image using WeChat?  
1. Follow the WeChat Dell Technical Support official account by searching for " 戴尔技
术支持" within the app.  
2. When in the Dell Technical Support Official account, type "7777" into the chat.  
3. The virtual assistant requests the system Service Tag or confirm the Service Tag if 
entered previously.  
4. Upload a photo of the LCD exhibiting the reported issue to the chat.  
5. In SFDC under Case Details, review the AI recommendation to determine if the LCD 
was reported as Cracked/Damaged.  
6. Review the uploaded photo and compare it with the reported AI result.  
  
 
  
What does this process look like in Lightning?  
The  simulation  shows you what to expect in Lightning.  
  
 
  What are the static picture file formats supported?  
All common image formats are supported including HEIC (iPhone), JPG, JPEG, PNG, and 
BMP.  
Note:  Non-image file formats or embedded images are NOT supported including ZIP, PDF, 
GIF, TIFF, JIFF, HTML and BMP. For more information, see  Visual Listening FAQ . 
  
 